January 2016 – decided on Capstone Project, started researching software side

Summer 2016 → January 2018 – Software design, both backend (Java, mysql) and frontend (php/HTML). Will add more details later based on Git commits. Stuff tried and didn’t work, mistakes made in code, etc.

January 3rd, 2018 – Asked Robert about recommendations on hardware. Started looking up chips.
January 9th, 2018 – Asked Robert opinion about FTDI FT232R IC. He told me it is UART and is not the correct chip. He recommended MAX232. Sought clarification from Brian on the voltage levels required for RS232. He recommended CP2202 chip. Researched difference between UART and RS232 online. After a discussion with Robert, determined by my own reading of the datasheets, that I require a MAX232 with a UART chip. I decided to use a MCP2200 as the UART chip because it is available as a SOIC, which is easier to solder to the board. The MAX232 is available as both a DIP and a SOIC. I plan on ordering the SOIC version of the MAX232.
January 10th, 2018 – Discussed with Robert required power for the sign. Possibly 120V AC, not checked internally yet. Robert found seven MAX232 chips that I can use.
January 11th, 2018 – Looked up online how to design custom chip (footprint only) in Multisim. Started designing custom chip in Multisim (for board layout) for MCP2200. Searched online looking for the differences between MCP2200 versions. Discussed in class fall-back options, in my case it would be to use an off-the-shelf USB to Serial RS232 cable. I already have one at home.
	With Robert’s help, I took apart the Series Two screen to examine it. The screen is currently hooked up to accept a RS422 connection. I plan to reconfigure it to accept a RS232 connection with Rx, Tx, and GND. The Rx to accept the message plus checksum, etc. The Tx to send back a confirmation code. The screen currently has address 1. Sent e-mail to Robert asking him to order two MCP2200-I-SO chips.
January 13, 2018 – Created a function diagram for the USB to RS232 board I plan to create. It is located in my Dropbox folder. Found typical circuit configuration for the MAX232, p.10 of its datasheet. It requires 4 – 1µF capacitors.
January 15, 2018 – Discussion with Robert and Brian. Determined that I will solder a USB mini connector (female) on one side of the board and a DB9 (female) on the other side. Signed up for no-ip.com DDNS. Use: eetsign.ddns.net Mistake, should be DB9 (Male), just stated wrong. Discussed DynDNS with Darrell across the hall, not a lot of help but I did get a better understanding of DynDNS. Talked to Shawn downstairs about DynDNS, found out that it is not possible on the school network. I will have to use my own router and connect the PI and my computer to the router to access the PI's webserver.
                    Found an error in the mysql database, both on the Java side and the php side. Java gives a nice error: Can not issue data manipulation statements with executeQuery(). PHP complains about access denied for user client@localhost.
                    Fixed the mysql errors by removing both the javauser and client and recreating them. Then granting them SELECT and UPDATE privileges.
January 17, 2018 - Robert told me that the MCP2200 chip had a 5 week lead time on it. I found a different site online, arrow.com, that could ship it the next day. 
                    I ordered it from arrow.com, using my credit card. Discussion with Brian about ordering and designing PCBs. He suggests ExpressPCB. 
                    I looked into it a little 3 different designs that are offered in the small size, $41, $51, or $61 for 3 boards.
                    ExpressPCB do offer free board design software. I plan on installing it and start designing the board, once I determine which pins need to be connected where.
January 18, 2018 - Discussion with Brian about solder mask, silk screening and other components required (other than MAX232 and MCP2200).
                    Created a Materials list spreadsheet, in Capstone folder. Built first version of the full circuit in Multisim, file in Capstone folder.
                    I searched for a 12MHz crystal oscillator among the boards in the soldering lab. Ordered crystal oscillator (12MHz) from Arrow, using my credit card.
                    Built custom chips in ExpressPCB software, after asking Brian and Robert some questions about SOIC specifications.
January 19, 2018 - Created a 12MHz crystal layout in ExpressPCB. Made some slight layout changes in Multisim (no wiring changes). 
                    Made the pin numbers line up with there respective pins by editing each chip manually and making the numbers visible.
                    Tried to desolder mini-USB port and DB9 port, was not successful.
                    Found datasheet for DB9 port (put in Capstone folder), started designing ExpressPCB part for it.
January 22, 2018 - Sought help from Brian to desolder DB9 and mini-USB ports. Brian finished desoldering mini-USB port. He helped free up the DB9, I still have to finish desoldering that.
                    I finished desoldering the DB9 port. I bent the pins slightly, but they bent back fine. Robert told me afterwards that he has some straight (not 90 degree) DB9 ports somewhere.
                    I still have to get rid of the solder on the mounting pins on the DB9 port.
                    I done up a fairly exhaustive parts list, including software that runs on the Raspberry Pi and my laptop.
                    Moved stuff around on the MultiSim schematic, it is now easier to read.
                    Started writing Phase 1 Intro, Requirements, Specifications, and Objectives.
January 23, 2018 - Finished creating custom parts in ExpressPCB. Asked Brian a few questions about info on the schematic diagrams in the datasheets. Example: "What does rad mean on the diagram?"
January 24, 2018 - Asked Robert for Vernier Calipers to verify the measurements of the mini USB port. I had to look up online how to read them correctly. The port's dimensions are almost exactly what is in the USB datasheet I used to design the pads.
                    Completed Phase 1 report, including function diagram, MultiSim schematic, introduction, objectives, requirements, specifications, contingency. I also updated the parts list to add some tools that may be required.
                    Sought clarification on the detail Robert is looking for in the Gant chart. Adjusted my Gant chart slightly to fit his outline. 
January 25, 2018 - Added MultiSim and ExpressPCB Plus to software parts list.
                    Formatting changes and correcting grammar in Phase 1 report. Found an error in my MultiSim schematic, RTS and CTS should be tied together.
January 26, 2018 - Started designing first revision of PCB.
January 29, 2018 - Added posAck and negAck for Verify mode in SeriesTwo file. Added, but not completed readAck method in SeriesTwo file.
                    Finished writing readAck method. Changed write method to call readAck and recursively call write method if readAck returns false.
                    Reason for these changes is because I forgot to account for verify mode returning a value.
                    Asked Robert about opening and closing ports, determined that did not have to close port at the end of testWrite or open a new port at the start of testRead.
                    Asked Robert and Brian for 1uF capacitors, have 4 of both electrolytic and ceramic now.
                    Installed Putty to test java program's serial connection.
                    Discussed with Brian some programming errors I am having regarding testRead(), it still comes up with Waiting for Read line but never actually reads anything you type in the connected putty terminal.
January 31, 2018 - Various changes to testRead() and serialEvent methods in Test.java, still does not read correctly. Did ask Brian a quick question about missing variable type, it was supposed to be declared as boolean (ready variable).
                    Discussed with Brian, found my USB power traces were in the wrong places, switched VCC and GND.
                    More wiring in ExpressPCB.
February 1, 2018 - Asked Robert for some 105 (1uF) capacitors and some large (2, 5.6, 10Mohm) resistors. He found them in the storage room.
                    Encountered an inconvenience that I disregarded. A SOIC, which the MCP2200 is, is impossible to place in a breadboard. 
                    After discussing with Robert and Brian, I have decided that I am going to solder wires to only the pins needed. Then place the wires in a zero-insertion-force socket to place it on the board.
                    Slight changes to wiring colours in MultSim, Tx wires are now Blue, Rx wires are now Green.
                    Added yellow wire in MultiSim, will be yellow wires on bread board.
                    Attempted to solder wires to the approriate pins on the MCP2200, broke pin 1 off.
                    Ordered 2 more MCP2200-I-SO and a SOIC to DIP adapter from Arrow. Should arrive by Feb 6. Added some parts to the parts list (breadboard, adapter).
                    Added more parts and traces to ExpressPCB board design.
                    Discussed with Robert some issues related to C5, C6, C7, and C8 placement.
                    Decided to change from R1 & T1 pins on the MAX232 to R2 & T2 pins. MultiSim schematic updated.
February 2, 2018 - Asked Robert about programming issue with testRead() and serialEvent() methods.
                    Robert came up with the solution to use a flag to see if the acknowledge has been checked.
                    Put the SeriesTwo sign back together, mostly anyway. Attached a 120V 3-wire plug.
                    Tested the sign by plugging it in. It powers on and lights up all of the LEDs, then displays "Self Test Passed 2.50".
February 5, 2018 - Tried several things in Test.java's serialEvent method, have not been able to test it successfully.
                    Cut off the male end of a DB9 cable. Stripped several wires until I was able to find the GND wire. Rx and Tx were easy. 
                    I looked online for DB9 colour code, the colours for Rx and Tx were correct, GND was not.
                    Plugged in sign and tried to test serial output, it does not send anything back at the moment, it is not supposed to send anything back unless something is sent to it.
                    Added the power cable to the Parts List.
February 6, 2018 - Slight change to PCB, in ExpressPCB, updated C1 and C2 to the appropriate size (0.125 capacitors).
                    Started to build circuit on breadboard. Waiting for SOIC adapter to arrive. I want to test the circuit on the bread board before ordering the PCB.
                    Added Pin numbers to MultiSim Schematic. Finished drawing the traces in ExpressPCB.
February 7, 2018 - Determined I cut off the wrong end of the DB9 cable attached to the sign. Robert handed me a DB9 female port to solder to the end. 
                    Robert would not let me cut off the correct end off new cable.
                    Asked Robert some questions about how to put DB9 port kit together. Had to resolder green wire because it fell off.
                    Asked Brian about mounting hole allowances for the DB9 port. He said just use the ExpressPCB part.
                    Changes to ExpressPCB board, changed out DB9 port for the one from default library. Added top cut line on board.
February 8, 2018 - Discussion with Robert on how to solder the MCP2200 SOIC to the SOIC-to-DIP converter. Read the instruction book that came with the converter board.
                    Soldered the chip to the board and the pin header to place on the bread board.
                    Asked Brian to check my surface soldering work, he told me to touch up two pads.
                    Added USB A (male on one end and no end on other side) to Parts list. It will only be used for testing.
                    Cut off the end and tinned the wires of the USB cord using the solder pot.
                    Finished building circuit on bread board, plugged in. Not tested yet, still looking for Windows 7 drivers.
                    Tested the circuit. Can not get an oscillator signal. No device or Unknown USB device shows up in Window's Device Manager.
                    Tried changing some things, R1 upped the Resistance, C3 changed from 424 Capacitor to 224. No change.
                    Tried adding a pull down resistor to pin 4 (RST) on the MCP2200, also tried tying it HIGH or LOW.
                    Removed the crystal and C1 and C2 capacitors from the circuit to try and test just the oscillator, can't figure out what signal to give it.
                    Got Robert to look at the circuit, he suggested adding a pull up resistor to the D+ line. Have not tried this yet.
                    MultiSim and ExpressPCB not updated yet.
February 12, 2018 - Found reference to placing a 22ohm resistor on D+ and D-. Did not try it yet. Tried placing a 10kohm + 470ohm resistor, with filtering capacitor to Reset (pin 4). 
                    Did not come up in computer at all, neither USB not recognized or any new device. 
                    Reverted circuit on breadboard and MultiSim back to what came up USB not recognized (Reset tied HIGH, nothing else).
                    Discussed with Robert potential problems with the circuit, he believes something is missing. He suggested looking in the MCP2200 datasheet. I plan on reading more into it this week.
                    Robert also recommended plug in the pre-made USB-to-RS232 cable into the LED sign. He wants to see the sign working before I finish building the board. 
                    I plan on getting the sign and software interface working first, as he suggests.
                    Plugged in sign and pre-made USB-to-RS232 cable. Reverted changes made to RS232Tester.java, uncommented write and CheckDB lines, commented out readAck line.
                    Sat down with Robert and tested my pre-made serial cable on the oscilloscope. Got it to read a character of data.
                    Brian suggested sending a single character to the screen from the computer, not Raspberry PI.
                    Robert and I were able to see the output on the Oscilloscope, 1ms window, 5V/div. Just clicked run/stop when noticed the data.
                    Brian recommended Bray's Terminal on Windows and Mini Terminal on Linux for serial I/O.
                    Tried the following command: #0011#002This is a test.#00418C#013
                    Did not work.
February 15, 2018 - Discussed with Brian sending the sign a byte array instead of string or char. Trying to get Bray's Terminal to send info to sign. No luck yet.
                    Tried using several different cables to send a character to the terminal (Rx and Tx tied together). It did not send. I even tried a different cable, no luck there either.
                    Sent Brian the pdf manuals for the sign (both programming and hardware).
                    Figured out the problem, I forgot to click a Connect button (top left corner) on the Bray's Terminal screen. Now to get back to testing.
                    Hooked up an oscilloscope to the ICL232CPE chip on the sign (RS232 driver), specifically the Rx pin (13) and GND.
                    Changed to 600 baud and tried several commands. The working one was this: #002EET Marconi#003
                    Changed it back to 9600 baud and sent the same command it worked. Next up try the same test via my program running the PI.
                    Terminal Settings were: 8N1, 9600 baud, no handshaking.
                    Brian gave me two DB9 female headers for my board, never used. Same style as the one I desoldered, but never used.
                    After slight changes to the SeriesTwo.java file, to copy the format sent from the PC, the sign display the message input from the MySQL database, via the webserver.
February 16, 2018 - Plan to try to send a message to the sign in Non-Verify Mode using the Raspberry Pi.
                    The following did not work: header + address + startMes + body + CR;
                    Did not work: startMes + body + CR;
                    The following string worked: startMes + body + endMes + CR; Now to test scroll and blink.
                    Did not work: startMes + (char) 0x19 + body + endMes + CR;
                    The following string worked in non-verify mode: header + address + startMes + scroll + body + endMes + ETX + CR;
                    Decided to hardcode serial port into Test.java, /dev/ttyUSB0. Tested and it works fine.
                    Tried verify mode using this string, did not work: header + address + startMes + scroll + body + endMes + numseq + chksum + ETX + CR;
                    Did not work: header + address + startMes + body + endMes + numseq + chksum + CR;
                    Did not work: header + address + startMes + body + endMes + numseq + chksum + ETX + CR;
                    In Bray's Terminal this worked in verify mode: #0011#002This is a test.#00418C#013
                    Also: #0011#002This is a test.2#0042BF#013 and #0011#002This is a test.3#0043C1#013
                    Set up 3 Macros in Bray's Terminal to test 3 different string in verify mode.
                    Did not work on Pi: (char) 0x1 + "1" + (char) 0x2 + "This is a test." + (char) 0x4 + "1" + "8C" + CR;
                    Did not work on Pi: header + address + startMes + body + endMes + "4" + "8F" + CR;
                    Did not work on Pi: header + address + startMes + "This is a test" + endMes + "4" + "8F" + CR;